#+BLOG: Unixbhaskar's Blog
#+POSTID: 995
#+title: Linux Infrastructure Management Part-IV
#+date: 2022-04-29
#+tags: Technical


* *Problem Management*

This is the post that will make you aware of how problem-related to
infrastructure can be handled and mitigated efficient way.

Oh,if you missed those previous parts of this series, here they are :

[[https://unixbhaskar.wordpress.com/2022/04/26/linux-infrastructure-management-part-i/][Part-One]]  [[https://unixbhaskar.wordpress.com/2022/04/27/linux-infrastructure-management-part-ii/][Part-Two]] and [[https://unixbhaskar.wordpress.com/2022/04/28/linux-infrastructure-management-part-iii/][Part-Three]] .

I am the kind of person, who doesn't believe in stories but believes in what is
actually happening/happen thing. And strongly believe living with a bunch of
people all the time that they give more *"black and white"* pictures then
distorted things with some colorful stories. It saves my time and theirs too.

So, in a broader sense, the problem comes in a bunch and goes away with a bunch,
yep, general rule of life. But, in BU, the problem can be categorized in
different forms i.e. *genuine problem*, *created problem*, *arse saving problem*,
*incompetency guard problem* et al. Frankly, I am not at all interested in others
but the first one. Unfortunately, you have to deal with others, whether you like
it or not, and need to take some really drastic steps to eliminate other kinds
of /"cosmetic"/ problems from your life and focus on the main problem.

Now for instance, I had been to the BU's infra for some organization, so I
can vouch, an emergency can come once in a month or bi-monthly, and you can deal
with it. But if it's started to come more frequently than those intervals, then
two things should come to your mind. One, the infrastructure needs a serious
kind of lookup in a quick time but rigorous. Second, need to evaluate whether
the guys who are operating or managing it. No other go I believe, you just can
not sit on it for long. It might explode at some undesirable time and make you
look like a fool. So, long story short, pro-activeness is highly desirable. We
generally are good at being reactive.

Now, when you manage a team, you need to split up things as important and
urgent, everybody does something special. I would prefer to do the urgent or
assign someone in the team, who I can believe accomplish the task without much
fuss and the important thing has to be distributed with others along with proper
eta. Sound familiar? Bound to be! That's the way it works most places. Plus, on
top of that, I would preferably have someone to document the process if
something new has come up. Being in charge of a team of any size, you need to
understand whom to give what, pretty ordinary thing; easily figure able. By
means, I need to convey that distributing the ownership between the members.

So, basically, I make people accountable for what they are doing and also make
sure they get due credit for what they are doing. It will certainly boost their
morale in turn bring more productivity and a sense of responsibility. When you
bestowed with that kind of honor, chances will be high to gain more than lose.

Okay, a different matrix has to take into account solving the problem related to
infrastructure. I will nail it down to a few, absolutely necessary ones. Just
trying to eliminate noise from the actual fact. I have seen a bottleneck in
problem-solving place, that too many levels of approval need for such a trivial
and insignificant job. Sometimes it really irritates me that, a little bigger
organization put so many layers which are not at all necessary for the system to
work properly. And they create more noise, which is quite distracting. As I said
above, a few good tools will make the infrastructure stable along with some
sensible folks. If the human is not trained enough, it's the duty of the leader
to pour some good information into the human, so they do not have any illusion
to work in that environment and become productive in a quick time. Although, I
have seen most of the "Managers" fail to do that in an alarming way. They just
do the wrong thing for the right reason.

I am pretty okay with a few bumps, that's fine and that alerts you way ahead of
time, so you can take precautions. But I am not sure how that can be measured,
because every situation is different and the way to solve the problem would be
quite different too (although the basics rely on the same, solving the
problem). Educating team members is of ultimate importance. The more informed
they are, the more they perform well.

In the next piece, I shall delve into solution delivery aspect.
