#+BLOG: Unixbhaskar's Blog
#+POSTID: 991
#+title: Linux Infrastructure Management Part-II
#+date: 2022-04-27
#+tags: Technical

* *Things To Consider*

We are supposed to know the underlying infrastructure, I meant to say, how the
servers are organized like hardware-wise and what are the network connections to
those boxes. It seems it's a kinda mandatory thing to know about those to operate
efficiently.

Indeed, it plays an important role to know where are those boxes reside, for the
cloud-related matter, it's good to know which zone it is in.

We have nowadays so many tools available to tell us the information about the
underlying infra. In older days we used to write a script to get the low-level
details to automate things,now the scope little less as more and more smart
people design and architect tools to take the pain away from ordinary mundane
people like us. And it helps immensely to spend your time doing the actual
thing, rather wasting time to figure out where it is and how it works (yep to
some extent; but still requires some investigation and time to get into the gory
details); but that is the curiosity part. A sensible infra person is hugely
curious and conscious about what he or she is doing.

I, personally refrain from doing anything if I am not at least a major part of
it clear to me. Because we all know how bad the "half-knowledge" is. A premature
assumption can lead you to nowhere and create havoc. Why get into that
situation, when you are open to operating it and abound to provide some
result. No, I do not gauge people by the result; it sometimes misleads you. The
approach, that will make all the difference in an open system (read GNU/Linux
and related systems) will allow us to navigate deep down. Provided you are
willing to spend time with it. Okay, let me contradict it by saying that,
working at BU doesn't always bring you the luxury of time to get deep into it. I
agree. But how about your personal time and knack for it?? Does it take away
from the job you are bound to do? If that is the case , then think about it to
get on with it.

We should have an understanding of how the servers are built from the ground
up. I mean getting to know the hardware specs i.e how many CPU cores?and how
much ram? How many NICs? What about the power supply? Which rack is seated and
what label is on it? et al.

That information will help immensely. I had been to a situation, where I was
asked to put the label on the iron box; for the cloud, you can tag it
easily. Not only that, looking at the different light colors on the server panel
gives you a hint about what is going on inside; although not necessarily that
all the time it will do. You got to take into consideration the specific event
you are working on.

Important note, nowadays everyone depends on Google and other search engines; I
too benefited from that. But I grew up in a stage and era where the internet was
not easily available in my country. I had leaned on books (yes hardcover and
paperback; I still prefer them!) and peer's knowledge (you might be lucky enough
to get a proper person to enhance your knowledge; a lot of factors involve it).

Take the thing to your head by yourself. I did. I do. And it takes time( because
I don't have a sharp bend of mind like you have), but once I get into it (which
certainly has to interest me..at this age; not anymore to bound to do it
situation); but doing it for the sake of love and discovery.

I am not very impressed when I see people with some airy-fairy ideas, talk big
and nonsense. Because I have had come across people who do practice that to gain
attention but false vanity. How dare I say nonsense? Because, they just don't
have any use case with them; putting ideas for the sake of doing it, nor do they
have any hands-on thing on that; that irks me a lot.

When you are not so lucky to know everything, like working with a cloud
operator, you have to take a different route to get things done. And I sometimes
get bemused by the fact of the way things get done. Oversimplification is a
curse in the cloud (or I have some mental block about it; need to figure out
that). Lots of misnomer is floating out in the cloud place and it is very easy
to get lost in it.

Why not take some time to read the spec and documentation about it then jump the
gun and work on it? I had had stumble block about it. I decided to give it a
shot and read through a large chunk of it( only that concerns me; YMMV). And I
believe I get a hold on a few portions of it solidly; thank god .. I did.

I have a serious problem with me for a long time; I can easily figure out whom
to approach and whom not and what to listen to and whatnot, most of the time and
it not necessarily I had have come out positive all the time, but most of the
time I was benefited out of that approach. Now, how come I distinguish that
person? Intuition and gut feeling (again YMMV).But having said that, I am not
stuck with a particular method or rule( I hate it like anything), am pretty open
to anything fruitful.

I like people who are on my face, and I like to be called an "idiot"; if that
doesn't make sense to them whatever I propose or do. Because, by being told
idiot or similar kind of thing, two things come out; the person is really caring
about you and wanted you to improve (I have seen some skeptics, naysayers; they
are just saying it out of their habit, and I can figure it out easily, and give
them back what they deserve) and you will get chance to introspect about
something you stopped thinking. It helps you to become much stronger and
efficient and respectful to those who care. And it also does not allow you to
live in an "illusionary bubble" anymore. That's good.

When you maintain stuff at a "low" level. But not mean real low level, but mean
at the hardware level, you are supposed to be good with the vendor. They can
bail you out of a lot of hassle. I still remember opening up an IBM X series box
and looking into it excite me a lot. I was a plain watcher; my expert colleague
was doing all the stuff at that time.

Physical networking is of utmost importance to working in the data center. I
generally keep a patch cable in my laptop bag most of the time. And I have seen
big network experts with a lot of physical tools in the data center. Blinking
the light on the ethernet port is crucial. Sometimes, it does blink but you
failed to understand why the hell server is not responding to the network query;
the real thing needs to check a few more places to confirm.

*DO NOT REBOOT* the machine for a trivial reason, because it takes servers to boot
a little more time (some time really good time) to get it back, because lots of
things get initialized while a server boots. Second, you can fix most of the
network software-related stuff on the console and bounce the service. Yep, if
you are having hard luck with the physical fault in the network, then chances
are dooms for you. You need to get help from the network experts. I mentioned
above, a person with lots of physical tools.

OR if you still do; without understanding the impact ..please make sure your CV
updated and well circulated.

Everybody knows those facts,who has to spent enough in the corporate environment. I
personally almost did that kind of mistake once; fortunately, my reporting boss
helps me to prohibit that. When you have a rack full of servers and no label on
it; that might cause lots of trouble, in my case, it was almost happening for
that reason.

Never run any automation script without prior permission of the person who is in
charge of it. I did. And I was castigated by the people to ruin their job on the
machine, heck. Even if you are good enough at something still it requires you to
be on top of it and get the best out of it. I was not in that case. I made
people's life miserable. And the important thing, I took the lesson in a
positive way. I wasn't vigilant or informed enough to do such kind of thing in
that environment. It's not about running what you know; it's all about how you
run and why you run.

Cover your arse too! People get less chance to get on you. By saying that,
whatever you do should have some checkpoints and mail related to that. And
perhaps the doc related to that. In case of a question raised by some "black suit
wearing" person, you can readily refer to that.

Linux...Linux...Linux... All I have had care all throughout my endeavor and
cared less about other stuff (purely because of lack of bend of mind and time to
think about others, but that does not include open-source...).I believe thinking
in a singular fashion sometimes helps you to achieve more than think a
multi-dimensional way. At least it helps me confined within one domain and helps
me to grow. But you can stick to whatever interests you. In this book, I will
solely focus on GNU/Linux; because that is the thing I am living with for a long
time. I love it; I hate it; I embrace it; I proliferate it; I endowed it, the
list can go on and on. Whatever I learn using it over a decade and was exposed
to different environments doing different activities.

O BTW, managing an experience NOC team and DevOps demand a little bit more
enhanced version of yourself. I have learned it hard way; yep indeed. Managing
some egoistic humans is certainly not fun. Machines are good, they do what I
want, but humans are blessed with EGO and that is predominant in most of us,
from time to time came out. But, for some people it is always the way forward;
heck,they seriously deserve a kick on their arse; sorry no other go.

Okay, "Your manager is always right", is that so?? I don't believe it. The only
thing that separates you from your manager is exposure to more information about
related matters. He/She might have gained it by some other means but still
he/she is ahead of you. Respect them on that account. And make sure you extract
what you need from them. Most of them talk loads of rubbish; so put a filter on
their verdict. They bring past events of their story into the present by
forgetting that this is now different.

No, I am not saying disrespect them, give them the due they deserve. Moreover,
who wants the story; give me your code I will figure it out myself; I don't need
your past story. Never say that on their face, react like that! So next time
they will be cautious enough to take you on. Am I ranting against the managers??
A big NO. Reread the above paragraph again. I just point out the truth and what
you should do. There are lots of good and I mean genuinely good people around,
who is the manager, it's just a tiny bit of luck you need to get bumped onto
them. But, alas! You will find the bad ones are outnumbered the good ones;
indeed. Keep your finger crossed for that and stop listening to stories.

Give yourself enough chance to fail. By acquiring more knowledge and
work. Please make a mistake and learn from it. Get into a discussion on the IRC
channel( to meet some rude guys) and in some forums (where most of the time
half-cooked information shared!! Except for two places, Gentoo forum, and Arch
Linux forum), and I really like those places; people are so explicit and to the
point for problem-solving and they expect people to come there to be explicit
and clear. Am I biased? No, I am not.

Now, the more information you gather by any means (from your manager or by
interacting with knowledgeable colleagues), the more chance you can get over
quickly with the obstacle.

Read ,read ,read and practice ..practice ,practice; no substitution for those. I
do. I am not going to give a lecture on that. I learned it in that
fashion. Investing in good books can benefit you in the long run. I personally
have around close to 100 UNIX/Linux books on my shelf (at least went through
them twice), not for the sake of collecting books and counting in the league but
to explore and know more. Nowadays it's become even more possible and easy.

We are in a field that is constantly changing and progressing. Moreover, it is
cognitive science, so the more we are armed with knowledge, the more we can
thrive. Now, there is a catch. Because of google, everybody becomes experts (I
have come across a few; O Hell!), a lot of information is not worth it. You need
to identify which is required and which one needs to be discarded. At least I
have limited space in my gray cell, so I discard a lot, keeping only those that
will help me deduce something related I am doing /will be doing very soon. It is
certainly not an easy job, doing so needs some sort of concentration , like the
way we configure software in the servers. One silly mistake and you are in a
position to miss the information for good. Sometime it might be costly to miss
those. And we do miss those. After all, we are human. To humans is err.

Cloud...OMG cloud!!!... did I mention that I struggled with it initially? Yes, I
had a torrid time with the terminology used by the expert cloud infra
folks. Okay, somehow now I can get hold of it ...although not completely. Cloud
has a magnificent upside and equally has a wonderful downside too.

It will take away the overhead of maintaining the physical data center and
related stuff, like cooling, personnel et al. And it can spin up a server in a
very quick time, so the downtime goes for a toss.  the cons, you lose little
control over the hardware and networking stuff, which is sometimes not good. You
will be dependent on others to provide you with the underlying infra. One
predominant misconception in people's heads is that the cloud is cheap. NO, it
is not. Period. You got to pay for every little thing, which might accumulate
and exceed your budget long run.

There are lots of players for the cloud in the market, a few of the renowned
ones are OpenStack, cloudstack , Eucalyptus, OpenNebula.They offer services
according to their strength. But, all of them are basically good. Do not forget
AWS, they are the front runner in that space. Most of them support the AWS API
to get the interoperability.

Gettng your hands dirty with it (more on that later) will certainly help you to
excel in this field. I don't know I always prefer the CLI way of doing things,
probably it stuck with me from the beginning. If and only if necessary then
only I can fall back on GUI. O BTW you can use ncurses-based UI on the terminal
itself. And there are many tools that are available to do the required job. In
fact, renowned distributions supply the tui version of GUI, which is a good
part. Because we will be working most of the time in a headless environment
(headless in server term, no X11 or GUI related stuff installed, security
measure). So, get yourself accustomed to the CLI, it certainly helps; moreover,
it is much faster than GUI (when invoked, it will bring along a plethora of
things along with it, in turn, more time to get work ). Try yourself running a
GUI app from the terminal, you can only see what is going on behind the
scene. When you operate on a server, you just can not afford that clutter your
terminal, if you suppress that too, why bother invoking that, when you have an
alternative available, which is much more lightweight.

Now, when you choose your OS, give it a thought, are you going for 32bit (almost
nobody using it now) and opt for 64bit. The architecture is almost similar to a
little tweak. And more space in address bus and data bus. Calling to the system
call return faster. There is no visual difference between 32bit and 64bit apart
from the naming convention to the /lib directory. But, internally it might play
huge, as I mentioned briefly the above. Moreover, you are giving yourself more
chance to embrace with current proceeding on the hardware front, which in turn
helps the server to take advantage of the underlying technological advancement.

And what more? I think I have given enough details above for the heads up.In the
next article, I will discuss information management.
