#+BLOG: Unixbhaskar's Blog
#+POSTID: 1227
#+title: Work Environment And The Tools Make It Efficient
#+date: 2023-02-11
#+tags: Technical

TL;DR and Loooooooooooooooooooong essay.....your call :)


Well, as the title of this post suggests, exactly I am gonna let you know about
my work environment and the tools which make it possible. Whether you like it or
not, that is pretty irrespective. :)

So, to start with, I have been using Linux on desktop/laptop since 2000, January
15th(see, I am bragging! meh) and it is exclusively the only OS of choice from
the moment I installed it on a new machine that day and that specific
year. Never look back or give something else the attention they might have
deserved.

Then having a choice of OS installed wasÂ  50% of the work environment of my
choice but another 50% left for the software I suppose to use on it. And I
was/am very moderate in selecting them. Initially, lots of stuff gets into the
environment without me being noticed or aware(let's be honest, my lack of
understanding played a huge role to bloat the environment I was building and
operating on), not the case anymore. Why? Because I become more aware and
learned lots of good stuff from better people I interact with almost day to day
basis.

Along the line, the machines I do purchase get powerful, but the requirement of
my daily operations gets shrink. Also, I have taken a few steps to find out the
stuff I hardly use or need, so to eliminate the environment and make the system
lean and fast to operate.

The unfortunate thing is that some of the software I do lean on or use for a
number of years and getting worse. So, from time to time, I have to make some
sort of dirty hack to make it work efficiently on the machine.

Depending on age-old proven stuff is an absolute lifesaver on the operating
system front but not so with the so-called "modern environment". So, I need to
make an adjustment to my beloved existing environment to induct some "new
things" for the get in touch feel.

Most of my daily workflow(huh! yet another modern term to describe how you
operate on your beloved machine) still heavily depends on what I was having
decades back. The core of the system remains the same only a few rudimentary
add-ons for the sake of adding more functionality or probably having some
eye-candy stuff.

Nope, not always the case, where I do bring in something for the sake of having
it, rather I probably spend considerable time on it to evaluate how that damn
thing might provide me enhancement to my already sufficiently oiled environment.

Two things dictate the choice of the work environment(obviously in personal space), those are :

a) I do make sure, do I absolutely need it for enhancement? (Little research)

b) My head is not as exploded as yours, so it restricts me to choose.

Is that a limiting factor?? Probably. But who cares? I know what I am doing and
for that what I precisely needed. Knowing about your requirement in tech and
life is the very first and very important step of all. This decision certainly
makes or breaks you from thriving further. I haven't been restricted yet for my
choice of tools I have opted for and too, time and again.

My requirements are always very limiting in a sense, an absolute must to have
for the job to be done. Having some fancy stuff for momentary reasons is alright
and I had some, which I promptly get rid of once I have done with it. Those were
bought in for a specific purpose and when the purpose was fulfilled, then no
point in having them in the system lying around. Getting rid of those makes the
system light and efficient to operate on. And, less headache to maintain it for
the sake of nothing.

Keeping the machine slim is a kinda paranoia I have over the ages and I do try
my level best to keep things that way. The external dependencies are pretty
minimal and mainly to connect to the internet.

Whatever the selected pieces of software I have, trying to use it in the best
possible way and not to lean on other fancy and so-called better stuff and be
engulfed into a hell of dependency.

The environment is mostly command line-driven, not because, I am efficient in it
but because it most work and takes fewer system resources to operate on and
produce results. Knowing the tools is not enough, knowing how to use those in
the best possible way makes things better.

Selecting tools for the job or for your daily drive is absolutely crucial. The
Internet is littered with expert people's choice of tool kinda posts and people
generally fall for it without giving too much thought to their own requirements
and environment. I have seen, people adopting somebody else workflow just to
impress others around them not to solve their own lack of efficiency. And, the
outcome is pretty inevitable, sooner or later they will realize porting or
adopting others' work environment not doing any good to their own
productivity. This cycle will continue until they have realized their own need.

Not having a better understanding than others often led me to think more about
my limitation and find a way to cope with them. As a result, find things that
certainly will boost my lack of intelligence and aptitude to deliver better. It
takes monumental time for me to get some of the things to my system (mentally)
to get on with those. I did/do refrain from stuff with a spur-of-a-moment thing
for the job to be done.

One good thing about sticking with the age-old time-tested tools is that the
chances of breaking something are minuscule. (let's be honest, it does, from
time to time for a different reason, mostly for applicability of the wrong
notion). Having those tools plus building some of my own with the help of those
renowned tools helps me to get along. If I broke something, it was just a matter
of min to find out the culprit.

Alright, I have heard the other reason for having big and more tools is just to
accomplish the trivial piece job. Wondering how their understanding work and
where they draw the line for using that stuff to justify their
understanding. Especially, when the dependency so much resides outside of your
control and importantly outside of the machine or environment you are
in. Bewildering! Where they find the efficiency in it.

Not necessary for everyone should have similar kinds of requirements for their
daily life with technology. I have very limited and importantly, I am happy to
be limited in that way. Because, it allows me to do, what I wanted to do and it
is been a long time.

I heavily rely on mostly UNIX Linux Commandline Utilities and my frivolous work
gets done with those.

Some of the tools I am using have a modern flavor and do mostly fancy stuff when
I wanted to have them. But, the choice of opting for comparatively new and not
necessarily bad kind of hit, when I found out some black-and-white stuff written
about them plus the rigorous experiments mine to make it a part of my arsenal
for use, and this process takes time and sometimes more than required time.

I have learned from better people to get the best out of anything (speaking
technology-wise), one has to have the endurance to get along with specific
things for longer periods of time. This attachment is having great benefit of
discovering, what suppose to be done with those, barred the obvious plus what
should not be tried out. Normal people call that trait, experience.

I often wonder thinking that not adopting suggestions from experts gives me a
hell of a chance to constantly re-evaluate my shortcoming or strength and
measure what could be done to get better. I do practice, that is all I can do
for myself.

Also, when it is not your own tool, interpreting the output properly makes a
hell of a lot of difference to use the tool best possible way. So, put an
extended effort to learn that certainly enhance the probability of doing
right. Oftentimes, misinterpretation of the output of a tool can lead to a false
notion, and decision-based on that notion lead to disaster.

I am in the field of cognitive science(i.e. overall Computer Science and
Information Technology space) and the constant process of learning is the only
way to survive.

What do I exactly use? Here is a little rundown, which misses a few,

GNU/Linux(Gentoo, Slackware, Debian, Arch) and FreeBSD as Operating Systems with
their own physical slice.

I3 as my sole choice of the window manager, which I run barebone, means, directly on xorg.

Editors play a huge role and I am sticking to Vim and Emacs for a long.

*Git* for version control and backup.

Browsers are important tools, precisely Firefox, Vimb, and Nyxt.

Pdf viewers are necessary for various reasons, so, Zathura

Shell is the de-facto standard and the place where I spend most of my time, I use Bash

Terminals are a way to get into the shell, and I have my own built St from suckless.

Entertained me and a very important part of life is music, I do use CMUS and MPV

Extensive use of FFmpeg to create Youtube videos.

Tools are a mix of compilers and debuggers and of course kernel related tools

Plus, a lot of scripts were written by me, and get them from the internet and
people, modified to suit my needs.

What else? Nothing much outside of those, some special cases stuff, and a few
other not-so-important tools.
