#+BLOG: Unixbhaskar's Blog
#+POSTID: 1708
#+title: Linux Terminal Emulators So Many To Choose From
#+date: 2024-02-14
#+tags: Technical Linux Terminal Emulators Opensource Tools

Well, we all have been using one or another for some reason, if you are
predominantly sitting on Linux for sometimes.There are so many /terminal
emulators/ available to choose from. And every single thing have some way or
other have some sort of different offering. The best part, though, they are all
destined to one damn thing, that is emulating[fn:1] a terminal.Period.

Here are few popular ones:

*x-terminal-emulator mate-terminal gnome-terminal terminator xfce4-terminal*

..and these..

*urxvt rxvt termit Eterm aterm uxterm xterm roxterm*

...and these..

*lxterminal terminology qterminal lilyterm tilix terminix konsole kitty guake tilda alacritty hyper*

I have used quite a few over the decades of me sitting on my beloved operating
system.But reached to the point, where I stick with a single thing for the sake
of keeping my sanity and consistency's sake.

Few years back, precisely I have opted for few specific piece of software to
induct in my workflow and since then I am sticking with them. The terminal
emulator , I have been using called *ST[fn:2]* , which is made available by people
behind the popular *Suckless[fn:3]* project. Their ethos of minimalism entice me
and it seems with little effort you can make yourself nice piece of stuff
without much overhead.

I have built my terminal as per my need with few patches. The patching is
needed, because they provide the software with bare minimal capability or
usability for normal use. So, to make it useful all the time, you have to have
some mechanism built into it. And that mechanism is by doing some patching to
the base software they provide. Thankfully, people write various patches for
different capabilities and posted them online, so you can pick whatever you need
and built it.So did I.

I have built two variant of color scheme with the set of patching I needed. Here
they look like :

[[~/Pictures/Screenshots/2024-02-14-073655_1920x1200_scrot.png]]

A /Solarized-Dark/ and a /Gruvbox-Dark/ :)

All I did was bring down all the patches I needed and built the stuff. You can
refer to that repository, where I have put things up for people to consume, if
they are inclined to. [[https://github.com/unixbhaskar/st_terminal_build][My ST Terminal Build Repository.]]

* Footnotes

[fn:1] [[https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Terminal_emulator][Terminal Emulator]]

[fn:2] [[https://st.suckless.org/][Suckless's St Terminal Emulator]]

[fn:3] [[https://suckless.org/][Suckless Website]]

# /home/bhaskar/Pictures/Screenshots/2024-02-14-073655_1920x1200_scrot.png http://unixbhaskar.files.wordpress.com/2024/02/2024-02-14-073655_1920x1200_scrot.png
